shields: Add nrf21540_ek shield (#31523)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: boards/shields/nrf21540_ek/doc/index.rst

.. _nrf21540_ek:

nRF21540 evaluation kit
#######################

> The nRF21540 EK is an RF front-end module (FEM) for Bluetooth Low Energy, Bluetooth mesh, 2.4 GHz proprietary, Thread, and Zigbee range extension.

Reviewer: Please wrap lines at 78 or 80 characters to help people who will be looking at this as a text file.

Author: Done

When combined with an nRF52 or nRF53 Series SoC, the nRF21540 RF FEM’s +21 dBm TX output power and 13 dB RX gain ensure a superior link budget for up to 16x range extension.

The nRF21540 complementary device has a 50Ω SMA input and 2x 50Ω SMA outputs.
This enables connecting an SoC or a signal generator to the input.
It also enables connecting the outputs to measurement tools or to antennas directly.
The FEM can be configured through the pins available on the Arduino headers.

The nRF21540's gain control, antenna switching, and modes are controlled via GPIO or SPI or a combination of both, accessible through the Arduino Uno Rev3 compatible headers.
The shield also features two additional SMA connectors hooked to the dual antenna ports from the RF FEM, to monitor the performance of the RF FEM using any equipment desired.

> 

Author: I am not sure if this cable has any special name. On the shield is a SMA connector on Nordic DKs are probably SWF connectors. I added there this sentence "The FEM SMA input can be connected to the nRF52 or nRF53 Series SoC RF output by the Coaxial RF cable with SMA\SWF connectors."

> 

Reviewer 2: SWF - that's the name of the connector I've forgotten. Thanks for adding this sentence.

.. _nrf21540_ek:

> nRF21540 evaluation kit
> #######################

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
nRF21540 EK
###########
```

Author: Done

> The nRF21540 EK is an RF front-end module (FEM) for Bluetooth Low Energy,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The nRF21540 EK (Evaluation Kit) is an RF front-end module (FEM) for Bluetooth Low Energy,
```

Author: Done

Bluetooth mesh, 2.4 GHz proprietary, Thread, and Zigbee range extension.
When combined with an nRF52 or nRF53 Series SoC, the nRF21540 RF FEM’s
+21 dBm TX output power and 13 dB RX gain ensure a superior link budget for
up to 16x range extension.

The nRF21540 complementary device has a 50Ω SMA input and 2x 50Ω SMA outputs.
This enables connecting an SoC or a signal generator to the input.
It also enables connecting the outputs to measurement tools or to antennas
directly.
The FEM can be configured through the pins available on the Arduino headers.

The nRF21540's gain control, antenna switching, and modes are controlled via
GPIO or SPI or a combination of both, accessible through
the Arduino Uno Rev3 compatible headers.
The shield also features two additional SMA connectors hooked to the
dual antenna ports from the RF FEM, to monitor the performance of the RF FEM
using any equipment desired.

> The FEM SMA input can be connected to the nRF52 or nRF53 Series SoC RF output by
> the Coaxial RF cable with SMA\SWF connectors.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The FEM SMA input can be connected to the nRF52 or nRF53 Series SoC RF output 
with a coaxial RF cable with SMA\SWF connectors.
```

Author: Done

Overview
********

.. image:: ./nrf21540_ek.png
   :width: 350px
   :align: center
   :alt: nRF21540_EK

> Pins Assignment of the nRF21540 evaluation kit

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Pin assignment of the nRF21540 EK
```

Author: Done

+=======================+==========+=================+
| D2                    | GPIO     | Mode Select     |
+-----------------------+----------+-----------------+
| D3                    | GPIO     | RX Enable       |
+-----------------------+----------+-----------------+
| D4                    | GPIO     | Antenna Select  |
+-----------------------+----------+-----------------+
| D5                    | GPIO     | TX Enable       |
+-----------------------+----------+-----------------+
| D9                    | GPIO     | Power Down      |
+-----------------------+----------+-----------------+
| D10                   | SPI CS   | Chip Select     |
+-----------------------+----------+-----------------+
| D11                   | SPI MOSI | Serial Data In  |
+-----------------------+----------+-----------------+
| D12                   | SPI MISO | Serial Data Out |
+-----------------------+----------+-----------------+
| D13                   | SPI SCK  | Serial Clock    |
+-----------------------+----------+-----------------+

Programming
***********

Set ``-DSHIELD=nrf21540_ek`` when you invoke ``west build`` or ``cmake`` in your
Zephyr application.

> Alternatively, set use of this shield in the project's ``CMakeLists.txt`` file:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Alternatively, add the shield in the project's :file:`CMakeLists.txt` file:
```

Author: Done

.. code-block:: none

	set(SHIELD nrf21540_ek)

References
**********

.. target-notes::

> .. _nrf21540 website:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. _nRF21540 website:
```

Author: Done

   https://www.nordicsemi.com/Products/Low-power-short-range-wireless/nRF21540

> .. _nrf21540 product specification:
>    https://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/topic/struct_fem/struct/nrf21540_ps.html

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. _nRF21540 Product Specification and other documentation:
   https://infocenter.nordicsemi.com/topic/struct_fem/struct/nrf21540.html
```
The link for the PS will change in the future, and more documents will be added.

Author: Done
